Thus far in this course you obviously learned a lot about Javascript and we did dive into Javascript
in the context of the browser.
In this module, we'll now have a look at a different environment where Javascript code can be used
and that's Node.js, a Javascript environment that allows us to run Javascript outside of the browser.
Now
really important to understand here is that what you learned thus far is of course not obsolete,
it's the same language, the same syntax, the same keywords,
functions are defined in the same way, variables are defined in the same way,
the difference of course is that we won't have access to all these browser APIs, to the DOM and
so on but I will dive into that in more detail in this module.
Well to be precise in this module, we'll have a look at what exactly Node.js is and how it differs
from the browser as a Javascript environment.
We'll then of course learn how to write Node.js code, how to write basic Node.js scripts and applications,
how to host a server with Node.js but also how to do something totally different with Node.js and
we'll also explore Express.js which is a framework for Node.js that makes building more complex
Node.js applications, specifically web servers, much easier.
Last but not least, we'll also have a look at how we can talk to a database and store data, not just in
memory of Javascript and not in the browser storage which every user can see but instead how to store data
on a separate database server.
That's what we'll have a look at in this module and therefore let's not waste any time and dive right
in.